---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Performance Check

If you're experiencing lag or frame rates slower than expected with your camera, there are several ways to measure its actual performance and find the approach for improvement.

In this document, we introduce `arv-camera-test` and `Performance Test` as tools to measure the actual performance of the device, and share some tips on what could slow down the device.

## Tool 1. arv-camera-test

You may want to check if the hardware is actually transferring the frames at the rate it's supposed to be. 

`arv-camera-test-0.8` provided Aravis is included in Sensing-Dev SDK. With this command, you will see some information of the camera with framerate and datasize in the realtime data transferring. You also can see how much data has failed in the transfer at the end of the program after hitting ctrl+C.

If you see the framerate is lower than it is supposed to be or many frame drops here, the problem is highly likely in the hardware or transferring layer.

:::tip
#### Hardware framerate setting
Check if the framerate of the device is appropriately set.

#### USB Connection
Ensure that the USB cable is securely connected to both the USB port on your host machine and the U3V camera.

#### Host machine's USB 3.0 port
Make sure if the USB cable is connected to USB 3.0 compatible.

:::

## Tool 2. Performance Test

If a U3V device supports `framecount` (frame index generated by the sensor), you can use [Performance Test](https://github.com/Sensing-Dev/Performance-Test) tool to see the frame-drop rate and which frames are dropped. Make sure to find the same version of the tool as the oen of Sensing-Dev SDK you installed.

Note that this frame count is different from frame id which is numbered in the transferring layer of U3V devices.

It requires Python and some modules:
```
pip3 install -U pip
pip3 install ion-python
pip3 install gendc-python==0.1.0
```

This tool shows how often and where framedrop occurs. `python test_performance.py -h` to see the option information.